1) what is Nabard and its functions and work in which area?
2) go through nabard website
2) Your bio-data related question
3) Current affair related to rural india
4) know your own geographic region
5) 1 year gap
6) pursuing phd then nabard grade a job




Q) pursuing phd then nabard grade a job
Answer: 




4) know your own geographic region
answer:

Geographic conditions:
1)There is 122 villages state in gautam budhnagar district.
2)The district has area between the two main rivers of india namely Ganga(from meerut) and Yamuna.
3)Due to the Sandy and Loam Soil , the main crops of the district are wheat, rice and sugar cane and in some areas, millet is also planted.
4)Sandy loam is a type of soil used for gardening. This soil type is normally made up of sand along with varying amounts of silt and clay. ... Sand particles are often larger and more solid than other types of particles found in soil, and for this reason there is normally more room for water to move freely through it
5)The total geographical area of the district is 1442 sq. km.

Social conditions:
6)The main source of living for the rural people of this district is agriculture.
7)Due to Noida & Greater Noida industrial area under Bisrakh block , the main means of livelihood here are industrial workers, technical, engineering & management services.

Economic conditions:
8)Being in the purview of ncr,Noida & Greater Noida of the district are world class industrial hubs.In Noida / Greater Noida industrial areas many large scale industries have been established by the multinational companies like Daewoo Motor, HONDA MANUFACTURING, CL, BPL, LG, HCL , etc. 
9)So, in terms of economical structure the district is important not just at state level but also at national level as it is famous for F1 court.
10)25% of the total revenue of Uttar Pradesh is recieved from Gautam Buddh Nagar.

Famous things:
11) Okhla Bird Sanctuary is a bird sanctuary at the Okhla barrage over Yamuna River. It is situated in Noida, Gautam Buddh Nagar district, on Delhi-Uttar Pradesh state border and known as a haven for over 300 bird species, especially waterbirds (like common coots and other migatory birds.

12) Surajpur is an excellent example of an urban wetland in Yamuna River basin and forms suitable breeding ground for waterfowl such as Spot-billed Duck, Lesser-whistling Duck, Cotton Pygmy Goose and Comb Duck and wintering waterfowl such as Red-crested Pochard, Ferruginous Pochard, Bar-headed Goose, Greylag Goose, Common Teal, Northern Shoveler and Gadwall.







